hey guys welcome to lingo marina today
we're gonna learn
20 new idioms and if you forgot what an
idiom
is an idiom is a phrase that you can
just not translate word to word because
it wouldn't make any sense
so the only way you can deal with idioms
is learn them
and today i'm gonna explain some idioms
to you we're gonna look at the examples
so hopefully by the end of this video
you will have learned
20 new idioms that you can use when
speaking english
so if you're interested continue
watching this video up to the very end
but before you start please hit the like
button if you enjoy my content and
subscribe to this channel
if you're learning english idiom number
one
white elephant white elephant means
a thing that is no longer needed but it
costs a lot of money
for example this office building
is a white elephant because everyone is
working from
home but we keep paying the rent white
elephant the white elephant the next
idiom
white lie white lie is this
small lie that you say because you don't
want to hurt someone
just a little white lie you lied i don't
know your
mom cooked dinner and uh you said
i love this dinner but you actually
didn't like it this is kind of white lie
you didn't want to offend your mom this
is why you lied
a little little white lie everyone does
by the way the idioms
in this video are arranged by color so
if you are
writing something down if you're using
different colors
make sure you're highlighting them with
different colors because it
really helps our brain to remember those
idioms
white color if you've been following me
for quite a while
and if you've been watching my videos
where i give advice on what kind of tv
shows to watch you probably know this
idiom the collar
is something that you have on your shirt
and
somebody who's a white collar is an
office worker
so you can say this is a white collar
profession that means
most likely you would go to the office
every single day
wearing a formal shirt sitting at the
office etc
there are also other word combinations
with this idiom
white collar resort for example means
that
people who work in the office mostly
come to this resort
i don't know maybe there is some town in
florida where most of people from new
york travel
to have vacation i've heard fort
lauderdale is one of those towns
which is regularly filled by white
collars from new york
this would have been some cushy white
collar resort
on the other hand we have blue collar
so compared to white collars blue
collars do more physical work
white collars do more mental work
white color blue color out of the blue
when something happens out of the blue
it happens unexpectedly for example you
know my
cousin called me out of the blue out of
the blue
calling someone these days is most often
out of the blue
because the majority of my calls for
example are pre-planned i have a
calendar
and we plan different calls with my
company we plan different calls with my
partners
so whenever somebody just calls me it is
always out of the blue
i'm like why can't you text me by the
way guys let me know if you're the same
if you are very surprised whenever
somebody calls you like i get
super surprised i'm like why are you
calling me instead of texting because
i don't know remember there were days
like 20 years ago
we would always have this phone ringing
my classmates would call me my friends
will call me with chat on the phone
these days nobody goes no and everyone
is texting so whenever i get a call from
someone i can say he called me out of
the blue i didn't expect his call
that was so out of the blue once
in a blue moon when something happens
once in a blue moon
that means it happens really rarely once
in a blue moon they come to visit us
once in a blue moon that means maybe
they visit us like
once in five years once in 10 years very
very rare occasion and he said that only
once in a blue moon does the dog's ear
grow back
sometimes you can say i feel sad but the
more elegant way to say it is to say
i have the blues i've had the blues
i have the blues generally means that
you're
melancholic and sad i feel the blues
every single day right now because it's
winter
and it's getting dark really early and i
just feel
that it's kind of pressing on top of me
i don't know if you guys feel the same
but these are my feelings when i'm in
the winter climate i have the blues
blue blood this is something that can be
translated in my language and my
original language is russian we
definitely have this blue blood when
somebody has blue blood or from a
blue blood family means that he or she
is royal or from a noble family it is
often used in a
negative way we want to say something
like oh of course the senator is a blue
blood he cannot understand
real people's problems because he's so
you know
upscale or whatever he doesn't
understand us
blue blood running through my veins now
i want to let you guess the meaning of
this idiom
to paint the town red and let me give
you an example
after our exam we decided to get
all dressed up and paint the town
red what do you do after an exam you go
to every single bar you go to every
single restaurant
and you enjoy life this is what it means
to paint the town red
means to go to a lot of different bars
and restaurants oh we're gonna paint the
town red
tonight i think it's coming from the
older days when we had a map and we
would mark
i would do that i would mark with like a
pencil or a pen
the places that i visited uh and this is
basically painting
the whole map with the one color and if
it's red then you know i painted the
town red i've been to all of those
places
red tape red tape means a lot of
bureaucracy
a lot of rules a lot of documents that
you have to get in order to do something
like starting a company in this country
or whatever country i don't mean any
specific country but you can say
in order to study the company in this
country we must cut through the red
tape this is crazy how many restrictions
they have for entrepreneurs
red tape means a lot of rules
bureaucracy etc
that's what makes us special no more red
tape
to roll out the red carpet when you roll
out the red carpet you give someone a
special treatment my friend rolled out
the red carpet for me
when i came to visit her that means she
decorated her house
gave me the best room prepared the best
dinner rolled out the red carpet
oh yes well
let's roll out the red carpet red
herring
you know what a herring is right it's
this fish red
herring is something weird actually it's
a funny phrase that denotes a fact or
idea that takes away attention from the
main problem
for example the police was investigated
in this case and they had a lot of clues
but all of them turned out to be red
herrings that means that those clues
didn't lead
to actually solving the case they were
just you know random facts that didn't
have any
specific meaning red herring they were
red herring
thank you catch somebody red-handed
when someone is caught red-handed that
means he was caught doing something
illegal
catch him right-handed he was caught
red-handed
taking money from my desk that means i
spotted him stealing my money
a silver spoon in one's mouth to have a
silver spoon in one's mouth means to be
born in a rich
family means you had no trouble growing
up everything
was given to you a lot of money a lot of
privilege
poor little rich boy choking on that
silver spoon and again just like blue
blood
this idiom is very often used in a
negative way
what does he know about hardship he was
born with a silver spoon
in his mouth which means he doesn't
understand us he doesn't understand our
problems
a golden opportunity a golden
opportunity is an outstanding
chance to do something oh my god
starting an online company in 2020 was a
golden opportunity or
i'd better phrase it starting an online
conference company
was a golden opportunity 2020 and if you
had it
your company has probably grown by a lot
you got a golden opportunity here
golden parachute this is an idiom that
again exists in many languages
and this is when a top manager is asked
to leave a company
he gets a huge compensation like
sometimes you hear
that a ceo steps down from a company the
company was making losses and still the
ceo is paid
billions of dollars millions okay
millions of dollars
this is called golden parachute and a
lot of shareholders aren't
normally happy about that a lot of
workers would say
why did this person bring our company to
bankruptcy or whatever
but they still got those golden
parachutes a lot of examples of golden
parachutes are mentioned
in documentaries about the 2008 crisis
and i was recently watching one on
netflix
and they were talking about how ceos and
top managers from banks
that went bankrupt got golden parachutes
they got
millions of dollars because they were
asked to leave their job
which might sound a little weird he and
you are my golden parachute
green with envy when you're green with
envy
that means you're really really jealous
i don't know that girl
got my favorite dress and it was the
only one at the store
and they are sold out across the country
and i'm green with envy that she got it
they'll be green with envy green light
you got a green light for me to have
rest today
to take this evening off and watch a
documentary or watch a movie
green light means you get my permission
you get my permission to do nothing this
evening
have you cleaned it with nationals we've
got the green light gray area
is a subject that is not really clear
and you can't really
define like i don't know when you're
dealing with
taxes or when you're dealing with
illegal documents
and you're asking your lawyer what i do
here and the lawyer says
you see this is a grey area we don't
know exactly there aren't enough rules
regarding this subject this is a great
area we don't really understand
see that's where you and i are different
i just suck at the whole
gray area thing and the last but not the
least again i'm pretty sure
most of you guys languages have this
word i have this idiom
it's called black sheep black sheep
means you're different
from everyone normally we have white
sheep and then there will be black sheep
and you know
we'll be talking about how different it
is and
it stands out so the black sheep returns
sometimes it's used in a negative way
like the whole class is
behaving well but nathan is black sheep
he's often misbehaving
running around and playing during
classes he's a black
sheep he was the black sheep that was it
for me for today guys thank you so much
for watching this video up to the very
end if you're not yet subscribed to my
channel
hit the red subscribe button down below
if you haven't yet attended any
of lingua trips online classes the links
to our best-selling courses will be
below
they are good for different levels of
english and they're good for different
goals that you might have maybe you want
to take an exam
maybe you want to start sounding like an
american or maybe you just want to brush
up your grammar there are different
courses down below check them out
i teach in some of them but i'm not a
professional teacher so i normally teach
with somebody who is an accredited
teacher
and we have a team who works on
schedules and works on the content
and thank you so much for watching this
video to variant i'll see you very soon
during my classes and during my next
videos
bye